In this lecture we're going to be talking about list views and how we can use them with Android Wear.
And luckily for us it's extremely similar to how we do it with regular Android apps.
So let's go ahead and create a new Android project I'm going to maybe just call it we're where list
view and we want to make sure that we are using the where option here.
I'm going to go ahead with API 23 feel free to pick whichever one you'd like above that or at that level.
We'll go ahead and create this.
So the example that we're going to be using is we're just going to have a list of friends and we're
going to get it to show up inside of a list view I think we've done this example before but I want you
to see what it looks like on Android Wear.
So let's go ahead and go first into our class and we have some information right now for a text view
that's been showing up.
But you know we're not going to be using that text fusel Let's go ahead and get rid of that.
This as well.
And now we'll go ahead and move back to the layout file here because this is where first we're going
to want to be able to add a list view and then we'll go ahead and move forward from there.
So let's get rid of this text view that we have we'll go grab a list view.
Just drag that into the frame layout awesome.
So now we have this list let's give it a proper ID.
I'm just going to call it list view.
Kind of boring name but look at that fills up everything.
So now we can get access to this list view by just saying list view.
I'm going to call it lower caseless view is equal to fine view by id our DOT ID list view.
Excellent.
And then with this in place we're just going to do the typical things that we've done before.
What we're trying to fill up a list view first we have to have an array.
So I'm going to make a string array of friends and I'm going to say that this is equal to let's add
some friends in here.
We'll have Joe.
Ralph let's put Sarah in there and maybe Jane.
OK.
So there we go.
And just to really show what a big list would look like I'm going to go ahead and copy these last three
names and just paste it in a few times so we can have a nice big list there.
So since we have that array Let's go ahead and make an array adapter and I'll just call this lower case
a re adapter and say this is equal to a new array.
Got my capital their new capital array adapter.
It's going to pass and that's the end I have to do.
Lower case Android got our lay out symbolist item one and then we'll go ahead and pass the friends array.
So I'll pass that in to my semi-colon there and since we now have this array adapter it's just a matter
of getting this set inside of the list view.
So just say List View set adapter.
Go ahead and pass in the array adapter.
And really that's it.
That's all it takes to get a list view up and running on Android Wear.
So let's go ahead and run this let's see what it looks like maybe on the square.
Watch here.
All right so the emulator finally finished up here and look at this.
We can scroll through we can see all the friends here in the list.
I mean this is just like a list view that we'd see inside of a normal lap and go ahead select one side
and you see we get the cool animations Well let's take it one step further let's make it so that when
you click on one of these names we have a text message showing that user's name.
So I think you're more than capable of handling this so go ahead.
Hit pause on this video and go implement that by yourself right now.
All right.
So hopefully that went well for you.
But we need to do is set up an on click listener for the list view.
So I'm going to say List View set on item click listener.
That's going to be a new on item click listener.
And then what we're going to do inside of here is we're going to make a toast message so we're going
to do our capital toast make toast or make text excuse me and we're going to pass in our main activity
up here.
So we're going to do main activity this and then we're going to go ahead and pass in a string which
should just be friends array.
And you know say whatever that position is sold to friends at the position there and then we'll go ahead
and say how long we want this to show up.
And in this case I'm going to say short length and then we'll go ahead and show this.
Also looks like this was auto completed for me.
But make sure you have a final string array here so that you're able to access it.
And with that let's go ahead and see what this looks like on the round device.
We'll go ahead and hit OK there.
It's always fun to kind of compare and trust between the two I think and we'll see what this looks like.
So here comes our app
and look there's all our friends let's go ahead and tap on one of them like Jane and look at shows Jane.
I tap on Sarot sir.
Ralph goes Ralph It took a second for the other one to disappear.
But there you have it.
So in a lot of ways Android Wear is very similar to making our own apps now in these next lectures we're
going to talk about some things that are very unique to only Android Wear.
And I think you'll really enjoy these ones.